Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
A. Data structure in Java is needed so that storing & organizing data can be done efficiently.
What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
A. The following can be performed on different Data Structures: Traversing,Searching,
Inserting,Deleting,Sorting,Merging
List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
A. Areas Are: Compiler Design,OS,Database Management System,Statistical Analysis Package,Numerical Analysis,Graphics,
Stimulation & Artificial Intelligence
what is an Array?
A. An array is a container object that holds a fixed number of values of a single type.
what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
A. The differences are: Array is a fixed length data structure, length of cannot be changed once created.
Arraylist is a variable length Collection class and it re-sizes itself when gets full depending on capacity & load factor
what is LinkedList?
A. A linkedlist is a linear data structure where each element is a separate object
How is an Array different from Linked List?
The difference is: In array, each element is independent, no connection with previous element or with its location
In Linked list,location or address of elements is stored in the link part of previous element/node
what is queue?
A. queue represents an ordered list of objects just like a list, but its intended use is slightly different.
what is stack?
A. Stack is a collection that is based on the LIFO principle
what is FIFO and LIFO?
A. FIFO & LIFO are:
First In First Out & Last In First Out
what is the order of complexity?
A. When you optimize code for,if an input requires size of N in the code,it will have O(N) complexity.
what is the best case to search an element from an array?
A. The best case to search an element from an array is by first element of the list.
what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
The worst case to search an element from an array is by the last element of the list.
what is tree in data structure?
what is graph in data structure?
what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
How HashMap works in java?
What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
What is difference between an array and a linked list?
What is DFS and BFS?
What is Recursion?
What are linear and non linear data Structures?
What is Big-(O)-notation?
Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


